# **Cloud Workload Protection Platform (CWPP):** 

According to Gartner, “CWPPs are workload-centric security products that protect server workloads in hybrid, multi-cloud data center environments. CWPPs provide consistent visibility and control for physical machines, virtual machines (VMs), containers and serverless workloads, regardless of location. Cloud Workload Protection Platform (CWPP) solutions help protect your cloud infrastructure workloads from security threats.

AccuKnox’s Cloud Workload Protection Platform (CWPP) achieves security by leveraging KubeArmor which uses inline Mitigation. AccuKnox’s open source tool KubeArmor uses Linux Security Modules to apply the restricting behaviour so that it prevents the attacks before it is happening. Let us consider an attack scenario where in attacker get access to the one of the application pod that is running in the cluster. If executes any remote code in the pod’s security will be compromised and attacker can take control of the pod. 

So we can mitigate this scenario in two ways. First is Post-Attack Mitigation. In Post-Attack Mitigation works by killing the suspicious process in response to an alert indicating malicious intent. Attacker is allowed to executes its binary. Attacker could possibly disable the security controls, access logs, etc to circumvent the attack detection. By the time, the malicious process is killed, it might have already deleted, encrypted, or transmitted the sensitive contents. 

AccuKnox’s CWPP tool uses the second method that is Inline Remediation. AccuKnox CWPP uses KubeArmor which is CNCF Sand boxed project. It is is a cloud-native runtime security enforcement system that leverages these LSMs to secure the workloads. KubeArmor does inline remediation by leveraging best of breed Linux Security Modules (LSMs) such as AppArmor, BPF-LSM, and SELinux to prevent the attack even before a process is spawned. It doesn’t allow the process to execute. 

eBPF has provided us with the ability to safely and efficiently extend the kernel’s capabilities without requiring changes to kernel source code or loading kernel modules. BPF LSM leverages the powerful LSM framework while providing us with the ability to load our custom programs with decision-making into the kernel seamlessly helping us protect modern workloads with enough context while we can choose to keep the interface easy to understand and user-friendly.
